# Effects of Non-Darcy flow on Worst Case Discharge Calculation

Worst case discharge is defined by the Bureau of Ocean Energy, Management, Regulation and Enforcement
(BOEMRE) as the maximum possible daily flow rate from a well undergoing uncontrolled discharge. The
estimate of flow rate from any wellbore normally begins with an inflow/outflow assessment if not reservoir
simulation. SPE WCD calculation report discusses the use of Darcy flow in reservoir inflow modeling, however, this is not applicable at high WCD rates (>200,000 bbl/day) expected with our aggressive exploration in deepwater GoM reservoirs. High-rate oil wells with pressure drop exceeding what is predicted by Darcy’s law are subjected to turbulence effect. The non-Darcy (Forchheimer flow) flow for high rate oil wells have not been applied or analyzed in prior research for a well undergoing uncontrolled discharge, therefore, this paper attempts to model a radial reservoir under loss of well control situation while accounting for the non-Darcy inflow behavior. The goal is to investigate the impact of rate-dependent skin on WCD prediction. The ratedependent effect if ignored, will cause erroneous WCD rate and volume prediction. A mathematical code was utilized to perform the study. A hypothetical reservoir model was built and inflow comparison between singlephase Darcy flow and non-Darcy flow was performed. Results have indicated that a maximum WCD error value of 2.5%, however, assuming a linear oil rate production trend over the discharge period, 500,000 BBL difference is expected for the total discharge volume predicted. This is significant on the overall volume/spill prediction. It is particularly useful for the reported total discharge volume to be accurate so that contingency plans are designed correctly. This will result in reduced fines and penalties imposed by U.S government and federal contracts saving billions of dollars payed by operator companies. It is thus important that under WCD conditions, non-Darcy flow must be taken into account.
